src/posts/welcome.md, before:

---
slug: '/blog/new-blog-setting-the-mood'
date: '2021-03-28'
title: 'New blog! Setting the mood'
tags: ['blogging', 'meta']
additionalKeywords: ['hello world']
image: ../images/blog-welcome.jpg
imageAlt: 'Zach carrying his dog Rooney'
---

This is Rooney. You won't meet a sweeter dog.

# Welcome

Welcome to my new blog 🎉! I'm so excited to have you here.

Earlier in my career, I was against blogging. I thought it was reserved for the "experts" and tech evangelists. As more of a generalist, I didn't think that I had anything to share.

However after I overcame a tricky [React](https://reactjs.org/) error the other day, I wanted to share my discovery with others. I wrote it down (somewhat jokingly) in a _This Would Make a Good Blog Post_ list. The list kept growing and growing. This gave me the motivation to throw the list into a [Kanban board](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban) and set out to create a blog.

![Kanban board of blog ideas in Notion](../images/blog-welcome-list.png)

I've come to the conclusion that you don't need to be an expert at everything to pass along what you know. As you hit roadblocks and discover new information, you should share that with those around you. For example when I get stumped by a problem, I'm constantly discovering blog posts written by others that save me hours in debugging. I've always enjoyed sharing like this in person when around friends and coworkers, but I've struggled to do this in our virtual, digital world.

I would be lying if I didn't say that I have other motivations for kicking this off as well. I would like to start an online business one day. To do that, you need to build trust. 95% of the code that I've written is behind private repositories and I'm rarely on social media so I have very little online presence. My hope is that this blog can help me connect, allow others to see who I am, and build their trust - one helpful blog post at a time.

Stick around if you enjoy reading about software engineering, entrepreneurship, personal finance, starting an online business, web development, and engineering management. I'll also throw in a few photos of my dog Rooney too along the way. Thanks for joining me!

\- Zach

Commit message:

Add description meta for posts

src/posts/welcome.md, after:

---
slug: '/blog/new-blog-setting-the-mood'
date: '2021-03-28'
title: 'New blog! Setting the mood'
tags: ['blogging', 'meta']
description: "Welcome! I'm excited to start a blog to share and connect with my digital neighbors. Thanks for joining me!"
additionalKeywords: ['hello world']
image: ../images/blog-welcome.jpg
imageAlt: 'Zach carrying his dog Rooney'
---

This is Rooney. You won't meet a sweeter dog.

# Welcome

Welcome to my new blog 🎉! I'm so excited to have you here.

Earlier in my career, I was against blogging. I thought it was reserved for the "experts" and tech evangelists. As more of a generalist, I didn't think that I had anything to share.

However after I overcame a tricky [React](https://reactjs.org/) error the other day, I wanted to share my discovery with others. I wrote it down (somewhat jokingly) in a _This Would Make a Good Blog Post_ list. The list kept growing and growing. This gave me the motivation to throw the list into a [Kanban board](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban) and set out to create a blog.

![Kanban board of blog ideas in Notion](../images/blog-welcome-list.png)

I've come to the conclusion that you don't need to be an expert at everything to pass along what you know. As you hit roadblocks and discover new information, you should share that with those around you. For example when I get stumped by a problem, I'm constantly discovering blog posts written by others that save me hours in debugging. I've always enjoyed sharing like this in person when around friends and coworkers, but I've struggled to do this in our virtual, digital world.

I would be lying if I didn't say that I have other motivations for kicking this off as well. I would like to start an online business one day. To do that, you need to build trust. 95% of the code that I've written is behind private repositories and I'm rarely on social media so I have very little online presence. My hope is that this blog can help me connect, allow others to see who I am, and build their trust - one helpful blog post at a time.

Stick around if you enjoy reading about software engineering, entrepreneurship, personal finance, starting an online business, web development, and engineering management. I'll also throw in a few photos of my dog Rooney too along the way. Thanks for joining me!

\- Zach
